# BGP-RPKI-IO (BRIO)
*** dougm - in this seciton talk about the set of BRIO tools in general.  Then below talk about each tool/mode of use ***
BGP-RPKI-IO (BRIO) is a collection of tools that enables users to generate synthetic
data and protocol exchanges to test router implementations of emerging BGP security
and resilience technologies. BRIO scripts can generate and recieve both BGP and BGPsec 
test traffic as well as RPKI-to-Router [(RFC8210)][RFC8210-v2] protocol exchanges.

*** dougm! - I suggest we use BRIO as the name of the set of tools.  For consistency I would name the other parts as follows ***
 + BRIO - tool set
 + BRIO Traffic Generator (BRIO-TG)
 + BRIO Traffic Sink (BRIO-TS)
 + BRIO RPKI Cache (BRIO-RC)

BRIO also enables users to script RPKI data and invents icluding the additional / removal of: ROA, BGPSec Key, and ASPA RPKI objects.

The combination of BRIO tools can be used to test
implementations of BGP security and resilience mechanisms including: route origin validation (ROV) [RFC8610], BGPsec path validation [(RFC8205)][RFC8205] and ASPA PATH verification [ID-aspa-validation]. 

### Supported Specifications
The BRIO tools support and conform to the following specifications:

*** dougm! - list all specifications supported by the tool. ***

[RFC8210-v2]: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-sidrops-8210bis/15/ "The Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI) to Router Protocol, Version 2 draft-ietf-sidrops-8210bis-15"

[RFC8205]: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8205 "BGPsec Protocol Specification"

## BRIO Traffic Generator (BRIO-TG)
The BGP traffic generator (BRIO-TG) can peer with a router under test using 
either BGP-4 traffic or BGPSec traffic. Furthermore it allows to test BGPsec crypto
algorithms as long as they implement the SRxCryproAPI interface. This allows to 
create performance tests. 

In addition BRIO-TG allows to receive BGP and BGPSec UPDATES and dump them into
text files.

The following Modes are supported in this version: ***dougm? - is BGPsec a version? or a mode of use?***

1) BGP  : This mode generates BGP updates containing the BGPsec path attribute ***dougm? - what about BGP-4?***

2) GEN-x: This mode allows to pre-generate bgpsec signed updates for performance
          testing.

3) CAPI : This mode allows to make direct calls into the SRxCryptoAPI to perform
          performance tests of API plugins.

The software can be controlled using a configuration file as well as program
parameters. The traffic is generated by passing scripted updates of the following
form either via command line parameters, piping, or scripted within the 
configuration file.

**Update Format:   "\<prefix> [ , ( \<ASN>[ [ p | P ] \<pCount> ] )\* ]"**

|           |                         |     |                      |
| --------- | ----------------------- | --- | -------------------- |
| Examples: | BGP-RPKI-IO as ASN 10   |
|           | "10.0.10.0/24"          | ->  | path: 10             |
|           | "10.0.10.0/24, 20 30"   | ->  | path: 10 20 30       |
|           | "10.0.10.0/24, 20p3 30" | ->  | path: 10 20 20 20 30 |

### Order of loading updates
Updates are loaded in the following manner:  
1. Session Updates
2. Global Updates  
3. binary File Updates  
4. STDIO Updates  
5. Piped Updates  

### Private and Public Keys:  
Private and public keys are generated using the key generation functions of the
SRxCryptoAPI. Important here is the key-list.txt file. BGPsec-IO reads this file 
to pre-load all keys for processing. For more info on keys see the SRxCryptoAPI

For all different settings, please call **``brio -?``** or check the 
configuration file.

### BRIO Traffic Sink (BRIO-TS)
It is possible to use ```brio``` as BGP traffic receiver. All BGP / BGPSec traffic 
can be printed out on receive in two forms, simple and regular. The regular form 
follows the Wireshark format where as the simple form presents one PDU per line.

## BRIO RPKI Cache (BRIO-RC)
BRIO-RC is a RPKI cache test harness. This software allows to produce 
synthetic RPKI data with timed, event driven, addition/removal of RPKI objects. This means that RPKI-to-RTR payloads can be pre-scripted announcements and withdrawals. 

## Deployment Requirements
The BRIO Framework has been tested on Linux Rocky 9 installations. 

## Installation
To compile and build BRIO use the included build shell script. This 
script allows to specify the folder where the software package will be installed
in. ./build... -i sandbox  will build and install the framework in the folder
sandbox. The installed code will be in the embedded local folder.

## Contact &  ???
For Questions and/or BUG reports please email to usnistgov/NIST-BRIO
